Cloud CLI documentation (#2086)
strapi/documentation: docusaurus/docs/cloud/cli/cloud-cli.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud CLI'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI)

Strapi Cloud comes with a Command Line Interface (CLI) which allows you to log in and out, and to deploy a project that is not hosted on a remote git repository. The CLI works with both the `yarn` and `npm` package managers.

> The Cloud CLI is designed as a CLI-only experience, meaning that users who wish to use Strapi Cloud to deploy their project with the CLI will have to mostly stick to using the CLI (e.g. if you login with the CLI you must logout with the CLI as well, your project deployed with the CLI can only be redeployed with the CLI etc.).

Reviewer: ℹ️ It's only true for the first version of the CLI. We will need to change this line once we release the next iteration 🤞

:::note
It is recommended to install Strapi locally only, which requires prefixing all of the following `strapi` commands with the package manager used for the project setup (e.g `npm run strapi help` or `yarn strapi help`) or a dedicated node package executor (e.g. `npx strapi help`).
:::

## strapi login

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:login`

Log in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi login
```

This command automatically opens a browser window to first ask you to confirm that the codes displayed in both the browser window and the terminal are the same. Then you will be able to log into Strapi Cloud via Google, GitHub or GitLab. Once the browser window confirms successful login, it can be safely closed.

If the browser window doesn't automatically open, the terminal will display a clickable link as well as the code to enter manually.

## strapi deploy

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:deploy`

> Deploy a new project (< 100MB), not already hosted on a remote git repository, in Strapi Cloud.

Author: Would it make more sense to you @nathan-pichon  if I change the sentence to "Deploy a new local project (< 100MB) in Strapi Cloud."? 🤔

> Deploy a new project (< 100MB), not already hosted on a remote git repository, in Strapi Cloud.

Reviewer: I guess, yes 🤔

```bash
strapi deploy
```

> This command must be used after the `login` one. It deploys a local Strapi project on Strapi Cloud, without having to host it on a remote git repository beforehand. The terminal will display a progress bar until the project is successfully deployed on Strapi Cloud.

Reviewer: The progress bar is only for uploading time, not for building time (and not for deploying time).
The deploy command work in 3 phases. First compression and upload of the project (progress bar). Then build time (user will get the logs according to the build phase). Then deploy time (user won't have the logs in CLI) that can be retrieve on Cloud Dashboard.

Author: Alright, I'll remove the part about the progress bar then 🤓

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud CLI'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI)

> Strapi Cloud comes with a Command Line Interface (CLI) which allows you to log in and out, and to deploy a project that is not stored in a git repository. The CLI works with both the `yarn` and `npm` package managers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Strapi Cloud comes with a Command Line Interface (CLI) which allows you to log in and out, and to deploy a project that is not hosted on a remote git repository. The CLI works with both the `yarn` and `npm` package managers.
```

I would suggest this wording, because on your local machine the code is already stored in a git repository too 😅

The Cloud CLI is designed as a CLI-only experience, meaning that users who wish to use Strapi Cloud to deploy their project with the CLI will have to mostly stick to using the CLI (e.g. if you login with the CLI you must logout with the CLI as well, your project deployed with the CLI can only be redeployed with the CLI etc.).

:::note
It is recommended to install Strapi locally only, which requires prefixing all of the following `strapi` commands with the package manager used for the project setup (e.g `npm run strapi help` or `yarn strapi help`) or a dedicated node package executor (e.g. `npx strapi help`).
:::

> <!-- Do we need to repeat the prerequisites here?

Reviewer 2: I think we don't (need to repeat them) 😊

:::prerequisites
To be able to fully use the Strapi Cloud CLI, make sure to fit the following prerequisites:
- Have a Google, GitHub or GitLab account, to be able to log into Strapi Cloud.
- Have an already created Strapi project, stored locally, to be able to deploy it with the CLI. The project must be less than 100MB. All CLI commands must be run from the folder of that Strapi project.
- Have available storage in your hard drive where the temporary folder of your operating system is stored.
:::
-->

## strapi login

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:login`

Log in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi login
```

This command automatically opens a browser window to log into Strapi Cloud via Google, GitHub or GitLab. Once the browser window confirms successful login, it can be safely closed.

If the browser window doesn't automatically open, the terminal will display a clickable link as well as a code to enter manually.

## strapi deploy

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:deploy`

> Deploy a new project (< 100MB), not stored in a git repository, in Strapi Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy a new project (< 100MB), not already hosted on a remote git repository, in Strapi Cloud.
```

```bash
strapi deploy
```

> This command must be used after the `login` one. It deploys a local Strapi project on Strapi Cloud, without having to store it on a git repository beforehand. The terminal will display a progress bar until the project is successfully deployed on Strapi Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command must be used after the `login` one. It deploys a local Strapi project on Strapi Cloud, without having to host it on a remote git repository beforehand. The terminal will display a progress bar until the project is successfully deployed on Strapi Cloud.
```

Once the project is first deployed on Strapi Cloud with the CLI, the `deploy` command can be reused to trigger a new deployment of the same project.

:::caution
The `deploy` command can only be used by new users who have never created a Strapi Cloud project, and for which the free trial is still available. Once a project is deployed with the CLI, it isn't possible to deploy another project on the same Strapi Cloud account with the CLI.
:::

:::note

> Once you deployed your project, if you visit the Strapi Cloud dashboard, you may see some limitations as well as impacts due to creating a Strapi Cloud project that is not in a repository and which was deployed with the CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you deployed your project, if you visit the Strapi Cloud dashboard, you may see some limitations as well as impacts due to creating a Strapi Cloud project that is not in a remote repository and which was deployed with the CLI.
```
